>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SATURDAY,
NOVEMBER 23rd, FROM GENEVA
SWITZERLAND, THE LATEST EFFORT
TO CONTAIN IRAN'S NUCLEA
PROGRAM.
LOTTERIES THAT INCREASE SAVINGS.
>> WHEN YOU FIRST HEARD ABOU
THIS IDEA, WHAT WAS YOUR
REACTION
>> MY REACTION, YES, YES, YES, I
WANT TO PLAY
>> DIFFICULTIES FOR JOURNALISTS
>>IN CHINA
WATCHING AND IF THEY DON’T LIKE
THE KNOW THE GOVERNMENT IS WATCH
IT WILL BE SOME PRICE TO PAY
>> NEXT ON PBS "NEWS HOU
WEEKEND.
FROM, TISH LINCOLN CENTER STUDIO
HARI
SREEIVASAN
>>> IN SEARCH OF A DEAL TO CUR
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAMS.
TODAY'S TALKS CONTINUED LATE
INTO THE NIGHT WITH NO AGREEMENT
REPORTED
MARGARET WARNER WILL JOIN US
FROM GENEVA WITH MUCH MORE IN
FEW MINUTES.
>>> IN AFGHANISTAN HE WILL STICK
TO THE PLAN TO FINALIZE
SECURITY TALK AFTER ELECTION
THERE NEXT APRIL
THE U.S. WANTED THE DEAL DON
BEFORE THE END OF THIS YEAR.
THE NEW PACT WILL DETERMINE IF
AMERICAN GROUPS REMAIN I
AFGHANISTAN BEYOND 2014 IN A
NON-COMBAT ROLE AND IF AMERICANS
WERE RESPONSIBLE FOR A RAID.
>>> IN PAKISTAN AN ESTIMATED 1
THOUSAND PEOPLE PROTESTE
ATTACKS.
THREE MILITANTS WERE KILLED 23
ONE SUCH ATTACK.
THE PROTESTERS BLOCKED A ROA
USED TO FERRY SUPPLIES TO NATO
FORCES IN AFGHANISTAN.
>>> IN POLAND TODAY, MORE THAN
190 NATIONS ATTENDING THE ANNUAL
UNITED NATIONS CLIMATE TALKS
AGREED ON VAGUE LANGUAGE THA
KEEPS ALIVE THE POSSIBILITY OF A
PACT TWO YEARS FROM NOW.
MUCH OF THE MEETING WA
DOMINATED BETWEEN DISPUTES
BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AN
COUNTRIES ON ONE SIDE AND CHIN
AND INDIA ON ANOTHER
A THIRD OF THE WORLD'S
POPULATION SAY THEY SHOULD NOT
HAVE TO CUT CARBON EMISSIONS A
MUCH BECAUSE THEY ARE STIL
DEVELOPING
>>> IN THE WESTERN UNITE
STATES, AT LEAST FIVE DEATHS ARE
REPORTED AFTER A POWERFUL STOR
UPROOTED TREES, CAUSED MUDSLIDES
AND BLANKETED PARTS OF
CALIFORNIA WITH SNOW AND THE
STORM CAUSED DAMAGE IN NEVADA,
ARIZONA AND NEW MEXICO
SIGNIFICANT NEW SNOWFALL I
EXPECTED IN NEW MEXICO THI
WEEKEND.
>>> WORD TONIGHT THAT AARO
ALEXIS WHO KILLED 12 PEOPLE IN
WASHINGTON D.C. LAST SEPTEMBER
BRIEFLY HAD HIS SECURITY
CLEARANCE PULLED AFTER A
PSYCHOTIC EPISODE WEEKS BEFORE
THE ATTACK
THE PRIVATE CONTRACTOR REVOKED
RESTORED THE SECURITY CLEARANC
NEVER RELAID CONCERNS IN
VIOLATION OF RULES REQUIRING T
REPORT SECURITY CONCERNS
DETRIMENTAL TO SECURITY.
>>> MAGNUS CARLSEN IS BEIN
CELEBRATED IN NORWAY
THE 22-YEAR-OLD CREATED CHES
HYSTERIA AND ANOTHER CALLED HI
A HERO
THE HIGHEST RATED PLAYER OF AL
TIME WAS TOSSED INTO A POO
FULLY CLOTHED AFTER DETHROWNIN
THE PREVIOUS CHAMPION WITHOU
LOSING A SINGLE GAME
IT WAS WATCHED ON TELEVISION BUT
AN ESTIMATED 100 MILLION PEOPL
EACH DAY
A SIMILAR NUMBER FOLLOWE
ONLINE
>>> JOINING US NOW FROM GENEVA
SWITZERLAND IS MARGARET WARNER
SHE'S BEEN COVERING TH
NEGOTIATIONS THROUGHOUT TH
WEEK
BRING US UP TO SPEED
WHAT HAPPENED TODAY OR DIDN'
HAPPEN TODAY
>> WELL, HARI, AS YOU JUST SAID,
EVEN THOUGH THE SIX FOREIG
MINISTERS, FLEW IN, SECRETAR
KERRY, BRITISH, FRENCH, CHINESE,
GERMANS, RUSSIANS ARE HERE FOR
TALKS.
THEY SPENT A WHOLE DAY LABORIN
AT THIS AND UNABLE TO CLENCH A
DEAL AND RIGHT AT THIS MOMENT,
WHICH IS ABOUT 10:30 HERE IN
GENEVA, JUST THE SIX ARE IN YE
ANOTHER -- THIS TIME A
POST-DINNER MEETING.
THEY HAD A THREE-HOUR MEETIN
EARLIER AND APPARENTLY, THER
IS -- EVERYBODY IS STRUGGLIN
OVER THE ACTUAL LANGUAGE OF THIS
TEXT
FOREIGN MINISTERS ZARIF SAID
EARLIER TODAY, HE SAID EVERY
WORD AND EXPRESSION HAS IT'S OWN
MEANING AND REQUIRES CAUTION
THEN HIS DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE AFTERNOON
SAID AT ONE POINT HE CALLED THIS
BREATHE TAKINGLY DIFFICULT AND
AGAIN, HE REFERRED TO WORDS AN
TEXT
AND HE SAID, YOU KNOW, THA
WE'RE MAKING MORE PROGRESS H
SAID THAN YESTERDAY, BUT IT IS
NOT AT ALL CLEAR THAT WE'LL HAVE
THIS DONE TONIGHT.
>> SO IF BOTH SIDES WANT A DEAL,
WHY IS THIS PROVING SO
DIFFICULT?
>> YOU KNOW, THAT'S A VERY GOO
QUESTION, HARI, BECAUSE I THIN
IT INVITES ONE TO STEP BACK.
IN OTHER WORDS, YES, THEY AR
ARGUING ABOUT IT'S REPORTED.
WHAT WILL HAPPEN WITH TH
PLUTONIUM HEAVY REACTOR, THE ONE
YOU CAN'T BOMB ONCE OPERATIONA
BECAUSE IT WILL SPREAD DEADL
RADIATION.
THERE IS STILL APPARENTLY SOME
HASSLE ABOUT THE WORDING O
IRAN'S ENRICHMENT ACTIVITIES
BUT THOSE ARE JUST SMALL
RELATIVELY SMALL SPECIFICS
WHAT'S REALLY AT STAKE HERE IS
EACH SIDE WANTS TO MAINTAI
LEVERAGE FOR THE BIG DEAL THEY
ARE SUPPOSED TO NEGOTIATE IN THE
NEXT SIX MONTHS TO A YEAR.
WITH ALL THE ATTENTION WE FOCU
ON THIS FIRST PHASE DEAL, IT'S
THE TIP OF THE ICEBERG AND THE
IDEA WAS SIMPLY FOR EACH SIDE TO
GIVE ENOUGH TO SORT OF FREEZ
IRAN'S PROGRAM AT LEAST IN
PLACE, RELIEF A FEW SANCTIONS TO
BUY TIME ON THE CLOCK, WHICH I
WHAT EVERYONE SAYS, SO THAT IRAN
WON'T ACHIEVE NEW CLEAR BREAKOUT
BEFORE THEY CAN NEGOTIATE
FINAL, FINAL DEAL.
SO EACH SIDE WANTS TO MAINTAIN A
LOT OF PAINFUL LEVERAGE OVER THE
OTHER.
SO FOR IRAN, THAT MEANS, OKAY,
MAYBE WE'LL FREEZE MANY PARTS OR
ALL OF OUR PROGRAM, BUT WE DON'T
WANT TO NOT STILL LOOK FRANKLY
LIKE A THREAT, AND THE U.S. AN
THE WEST ARE WILLING TO EASE
SOME SANCTIONS, BUT THEY DON'T
WANT TO RELAX THE ONES THAT IRAN
REALLY CARES ABOUT, THE OIL,
TRADING SANCTIONS, THE ONE THA
BASICALLY HAVE KEPT THEM OUT O
THE GLOBAL MY NATIONAL SYSTE
BECAUSE THEY ARE AFRAID THAT
ONCE -- IF THE U.S. DOES THA
AND THE WEST DOES THAT, IRAN
WON'T HAVE ANY INCENTIVE T
CONTINUE WITH THE SECOND FACE OF
THE NEGOTIATIONS
SO THERE'S -- IT'S REALL
TACTICAL AND STRATEGIC AND
POLITICAL, AS WE KNOW, BOT
IRANIANS AND AMERICANS HAV
HEADLINERS AT HOME THEY HAVE T
SATISFY.
>> SO IF WE SEE NO DEAL REACHE
HERE, WE KIND OF SAW IT TW
WEEKS AGO.
THERE WAS A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF
ENERGY, A BUILDUP, IF THERE IS
NO DEAL REACHED HERE, WHAT DOE
THAT DO TO THE MOMENTUM OF THI
CONVERSATION
>> HAR, IT MAKES IT DIFFICULT.
WE'RE REALLY THERE
WE'RE ALMOST THERE, BRINGING I
THE BIG GUNS AND GOT SO CLOS
BUT FAILED
THIS TIME WAS SUPPOSED TO BE THE
TIME AND THE MINISTERS WEREN'T
SUPPORTED TO COME IN UNTIL I
WAS REALLY CLOSE AND THEY WERE
SUPPOSED TO CORRECT A FINA
VERSION.
INSTEAD, AFTER THREE DAYS OF
TALKS, IT DIDN'T QUITE GET FAR
ENOUGH
THEY AGREED TO COME IN
IT IS HARD -- I MEAN, IT'S NOT
IMPOSSIBLE TO GO TO THAT WELL, A
THIRD TIME BUT EACH TIME YOU
PULL OUT YOUR BIG CARD OR YOUR
BIG GUN, IT DIMINISHES ITS
CLOUD.
AT THE SAME TIME, WHAT I
KEEPING THE PARTIES GOING IS
WHAT'S THE ALTERNATIVE
SO THE WEST LOOKS AND SAYS WELL,
FOR IRAN, THE ALTERNATIVE IS T
CONTINUE TO URANIUM ENRICHMENT
POINT TO BE BASICALLY NUCLEA
WEAPONS READY AND FOR IRAN I
WOULD MEAN IF THERE IS NO DEAL
THE U.S. CONGRESS FOR ONE IS
GOING TO IMPOSE TOUGHE
SANCTIONS, SENATE MAJORITY
LEADER HARRY REID IS READY T
LET A BILL MOVE STARTING
DECEMBER 9th
SO THE ALTERNATIVE IS REALLY
REALLY POTENTIALLY UGLY BECAUS
THERE IS THE THREAT OF
POTENTIALLY AN ISRAELLY STRIKE
THAT'S WHAT IS KEEPING THE
PARTIES ON THE TABLE
>> MARGARET WARNER JOINING US.
THANKS SO MUCH
>> MY PLEASURE, HARI
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT, MAKING SAVING MONEY
FUN.
AND POTENTIALLY MORE LUCRATIVE
FOUR STATES AROUND THE NATIO
ARE EXPERIMENTING WITH PROGRAM
THAT HAVE BEEN TRIED
SUCCESSFULLY AROUND COUNTRIES IN
THE WORLD BOOSTING SAVINGS BUT
LINKING THEM TO LOTTERIES.
THE DRAW, YOU MIGHT NOT WIN BU
YOU CAN'T LOSE A PENNY
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT CARL
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: IT'S A MOMENT
MILLIONS OF AMERICANS WAIT FOR
EACH WEEK.
>> LET'S SEE IF WE CAN MAKE YO
A MILLIONAIRE TONIGHT.
>> Reporter: THE CHANCE TO WIN A
HUGE, LIFE-CHANGING AMOUNT O
MONEY.
>> A CHECK FOR $10,000
>> Reporter: BUT NOW, SOME
STATES ARE EXPERIMENTING WITH
DIFFERENT KIND OF LOTTERY, ONE
WHERE YOU WON'T NECESSARILY WI
BUT YOU CAN'T LOSE
IT'S SOMETHING CALLED A PRIC
LINKED SAVING ACCOUNT AN
27-YEAR-OLD CRYSTAL ROSE HUDDL
SON WAS INCREASED BY A POSTE
FOR ONE WHEN SHE WALKED INTO A
LOCAL CREDIT UNION THIS YEAR
>> IT HAD A GIRL THAT WAS CUTE
CUTE CLOTHES AND HAIR AND HA
THIS SIGN UP, JUST NEED $25 AN
I THOUGHT, WHAT IS THIS?
>> Reporter: IT WAS FOR
SAVINGS PROGRAM CALLED SAVE TO
WIN.
FOR EVERY $25 PUT IN THEIR
ACCOUNT, THEY COULD WIN PRIZES
ONE OF $5,000 NEXT SPRING.
IF YOU DON'T WIN, YOU GET TO
KEEP THE MONEY, PLUS INTEREST.
THE PRIZE MONEY IS PUT UP BY THE
CREDIT UNIONS AND THE REGIONAL
ASSOCIATION AS AN INCENTIVE TO
GET MEMBERS TO SAVE.
THE IDEA IS NEW TO THE U.S. BU
BEEN AROUND FOR DECADES ALL OVER
THE WORLD.
AT LEAST 18 COUNTRIES HAVE PRIZE
LINK SAVINGS OPTIONS, INCLUDIN
THE UK
>> 5,000 SMACKERS AND SHOUT IT'S
MINE, NO MINE, NO MINE
BY PREMIUM BONDS WIN SOMETHING
REALLY WORTH ARGUING ABOUT
>> Reporter: BACK IN WASHINGTO
STATE, CRYSTAL SIGNED UP FOR
SAVE TO WIN.
>> I'M NOT GOING TO LOSE
ANYTHING, SO WHY NOT
I KEEP TELLING EVERYBODY IT'S MY
VERSION OF GAMBLING.
>> Reporter: WHAT CRYSTAL FOUN
IN WASHINGTON STATE IS OFFERED
IN THREE OTHER STATES.
IN NEBRASKA THEY ARE COMPETING
FOR AN ANNUAL $25,000 GRAN
PRICE AND ATLANTA THEY ARE VYING
FOR AN ANNUAL $30,000 GRAN
PRIZE AND IN MICHIGAN WHERE TH
PROGRAM HAS BEEN AROUND SINC
2009, 12,500 SAVERS ARE ENTERING
TO WIN $10,000 EACH.
IT'S MEANT TO REMEDY THE DISMA
SAVINGS RATE THAT DECLINED B
HALF OVER THE LAST FOUR DECADES.
IN FACT, TODAY, MORE THAN
QUARTER OF AMERICANS HAVE NO
SAVINGS AT ALL BUT DERRICK
KILMER HAS BEEN WORKING TO
CHANGE THAT.
>> THE PROBLEM WITH NOT SAVING
IT CAN OFTEN MEAN YOU'RE A
CRISIS AWAY FROM, AS WE'VE SEE
IN SOME CASES, LIVING IN YOU
CAR OR LOSING YOUR HOME OR
HAVING YOUR LIGHTS SHUT OFF.
>> Reporter: AS A WASHINGTON
STATE SENATOR, KILMER SPONSORS
LEGISLATION IN 2011 TO ALLOW
CREDIT UNIONS, WHICH ARE
REGULATED BY THE STATE TO OFFE
SAVE TO WIN.
WHY ISN'T JUST THE REWARD OF
COMPOUNDING INTEREST ENOUGH TO
MAKE PEOPLE SAVE
I MEAN, WHY DO YOU ACTUALLY NEED
TO PRIZE TO GET PEOPLE TO SAVE
>> WHY DO PEOPLE PLAY TH
LOTTERY OR GAMBLE PERIOD
YOU KNOW, IT'S WITH THE HOPE O
WINNING SOMETHING MORE
THERE'S A SENSE THAT THI
ACTUALLY MAKES SAVINGS FUN
>> Reporter: AS A FULL-TIM
STUDENT STUDYING TO BECOME A
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC, SAVING ISN'
USUALLY FUN FOR CRYSTAL ROSE
HUDDLE SON
SHE'S PAYING FOR SCHOOL ON HER
OWN.
>> THE MOST I'VE EVER HAD IN M
SAVINGS ACCOUNT NOW THAT I THINK
ABOUT IT IS PROBABLY $500.
>> Reporter: CHERYL HALL IS TH
CEO OF EXPRESS CREDIT UNION.
THEY ARE ONE OF SIX UNIONS
OFFERING SAVE TO WIN I
WASHINGTON STATE
WHEN YOU HEARD ABOUT THE IDEA,
WHAT WAS YOUR REACTION
>> YES, YES, YES, YES, I WANT TO
PLAY
I WANT TO PLAY
>> Reporter: SINCE LAUNCHING I
APRIL, EXPRESS SIGNED UP DOZEN
OF SAVE TO WIN ACCOUNTS.
THEY ARE 12 MONTHS OF CDs.
EVEN THOUGH THE ACCOUNTS AREN'
PROFITABLE FOR THE CREDIT UNION,
SHE'S ENCOURAGED BY THE RESULT
SO FAR
THE SAVE TO WIN ACCOUNTS AVERAGE
$573, WHICH IS MORE THAN FOU
TIMES THE AVERAGE SAVING
BALANCE AT THE CREDIT UNION.
DO YOU THINK THIS WILL CHANG
BEHAVIOR OR TEACH PEOPLE THE
VALUE OF A SAVINGS ACCOUNT
>> IT'S FORCED BEHAVIOR.
I HATE TO SAY THAT
THE REASON THEY ARE CDs IS YOU
HAVE TO KEEP IT IN THERE FOR 1
MONTHS
IF YOU LEARNED THAT YOU CAN LIVE
WITHOUT THAT $25 FOR 12 MONTHS
IT'S A BEHAVIORAL CHANGE
>> Reporter: DO THE THINK TH
PRIZES ARE BIG ENOUGH TO DRA
PEOPLE IN?
>> THE GRAND PRIZE IS AND TH
MORE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS THAT
PARTICIPATE, THE BIGGER TH
PRIZE.
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE A MILLION
DOLLARS BUT IT'S ENTICING ENOUGH
TO DRAW NEW PEOPLE INTO YOUR
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.
>> Reporter: MOST MEMBERS AT
EXPRESS CREDIT UNION ARE LOW
INCOME AND MELISSA CARNEY THINKS
THAT PRIZE LINK SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
WILL PARTICULARLY APPEAL TO LO
INCOME AMERICANS WHO SPEND A
HIGH SHARE OF THEIR INCOME
PLAYING LOTTERIES.
>> PEOPLE ARE IRRATIONAL WHE
THEY PLAY THE LOTTERY BUT
WOULD CHALLENGE THAT ASSUMPTION.
IF YOU'RE A LOW INCOME
INDIVIDUAL, HOW ELSE CAN YOU
POTENTIALLY WIN ENOUGH MONEY T
BUY A HOUSE OR REALLY CHANGE
YOUR LIFE?
>> Reporter: CARNEY IS A
ECONOMIST AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
MARYLAND AND DIRECTOR OF THE
HAMILTON PROJECT
SHE THINKS SHE'S LOTTERY-BASED
ACCOUNTS HELP PEOPLE SAVE BY
LEVERAGING THEIR DESIRE TO WIN
BIG.
>> IF YOU HAVE LOW SAVINGS
DEPOSITS, WHICH MANY LOW AND
MODERATE INCOME INDIVIDUALS DO
YOU'RE ONLY ACCUMULATING A FEW
DOLLARS EVERY MONTH OR EVE
EVERY YEAR
AND IT WILL TAKE SOME TEN YEAR
TO ACCUMULATE ENOUGH INTERES
PAYMENTS ON A LOW DEPOSI
CHECKING ACCOUNT TO MAKE A DOW
PAYMENT OR BIG PURCHASE.
>> Reporter: DOES PRIZE LINK
SAVINGS HELP PEOPLE SAVE MOR
MONEY?
CARNEY HELPED DESIGN A
EXPERIMENT TO FIND OUT
>> THE RESULTS WERE QUIT
STRIKING
WHAT WE'RE ABLE TO SAY AT TH
END OF THE DAY IS THAT FOR A
GIVEN AMOUNT OF INTEREST
PAYMENTS, THEY CAN ACTUALL
ENTICE A LOT MORE DEPOSITS AND
MORE SAVINGS IF THEY STRUCTURE
THE INTEREST TO HAVE SOM
LOTTERY OR PRIZE LINK COMPONEN
TO IT.
>> Reporter: THE RESULTS WER
CONSISTENT WITH WHAT'S BEEN SEEN
IN MICHIGAN WHERE THE AVERAG
AMOUNT SAVED WITH SAVE TO WI
HAS GROWN DRAMATICALLY SINCE
BEING LUNCHED IN 2009.
WHY AREN'T PRIZE LINK SAVING
SWEEPING THE U.S.?
TURNS OUT THE BIGGEST OBSTACLE
IS FEDERAL LAW
UNLIKE STATE REGULATED CREDI
UNIONS, IT'S ILLEGAL FOR BANKS
TO PARTICIPATE IN LOTTERIES.
BUT A NEW BIPARTISAN BIL
INTRODUCED IN BOTH THE U.S
SENATE AND HOUSE IN OCTOBE
COULD MAKE PRICE LINK SAVING
ACCOUNTS MUCH MORE WIDEL
AVAILABLE.
>> THE BILL THAT WE AUMPED I
CALLED THE AMERICAN SAVING
PROMOTION ACT.
>> Reporter: DERRICK IS
DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSMAN, AND HE'S
A CO-SPONSOR OF THE LEGISLATIO
IN THE HOUSE, ALONG WITH
REPUBLICAN TOM COTTON OF
ARKANSAS
>> AT THE VERY LEAST AT TH
FEDERAL LEVEL, I WOULD LIKE TO
SEE US REMOVE AN IMPEDIMEN
OFFERING THIS INNOVATIVE
PRODUCT.
>> Reporter: AT THE END OF THE
DAY IS IT TEACHING PEOPLE TO B
BETTER SAVERS OR TEACHING PEOPLE
TO GET A PRIZE
>> IT'S INTERMITTENT POSITIV
REENSOURCEMENT
AS SOMEONE SAVES MORE MONEY,
THEY EARN MORE CHANCES AND
THAT'S POSITIVE REINFORCEMENT TO
SAVE MORE MONEY, AND I THINK
THAT'S A GOOD THING.
I MEAN, WE'VE JUST GONE THROUG
SOME OF THE MOST DIFFICULT
FINANCIAL YEARS THE NATION CAN
GO THROUGH, AND SO I THINK
THERE'S AN APPRECIATION FOR TH
VALUE OF A TOOL LIKE THIS TO
HELP PEOPLE SAVE
>> Reporter: CRYSTAL ROSE HUDDLE
SON IS CONVINCED SAVE TO WIN
HELPED HER SAVE MONEY,
ESPECIALLY AFTER SHE GOT
SURPRISING NEWS LAST MONTH
HAVE YOU WON ANYTHING YET?
>> YES, I WON $50.
I WAS SO EXCITED ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: WHAT DID YOU DO
WITH THE MONEY THAT YOU WON?
>> I REINVESTED IT BACK INTO THE
CD BECAUSE EVERY 25 DOLLAR
INCREMENT YOU GET YOUR NAME PU
BACK IN THE DRAWING AND I WOUL
BE AN IDIOT IF I DIDN'T PUT IT
BACK IN TO GET MY NAME PUT BAC
IN THE DRAWING TWO MORE TIMES,
SO IT WENT STRAIGHT BACK IN.
>> FIND OUT ABOUT OTHER SAVING
INCENTIVE PROGRAMS FROM AROUND
THE NATION
VISIT NEWS HOUR.PBS.ORG.
>>> A RECENT STRING OF EVENT
RAISED QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
FREEDOM OF THE FOREIGN PRESS I
CHINA, A PROMINENT JOURNALIS
HAD BEEN REPORTING THERE FOR
YEARS WAS DENIED A VISA BY THE
CHINESE GOVERNMENT WITH NO
REASON GIVEN
THIS AFTER REVELATIONS BLOOMBERG
NEWS HELD PUBLICATION OF A STORY
FOR FEAR THE NEWS AGENCY WOULD
BE KICKED OUT OF THE COUNTRY
EARLIER I SAT DOWN WITH BOTH
--
BOB DIETZ AND I ASKED HIM IF
THESE EVENTS ARE BUSINESS AS
USUAL OR SOMETHING MORE.
>> I THINK THIS IS BUSINESS AS
USUAL.
CHINA'S LONG HAD A CONTENTIOUS
ATMOSPHERE APPROACH TO MEDIA
AND YOU COME INTO PERIODS OF
GETS TO BE -- YOU COME INT
PERIODS OF, YOU KNOW, ANGER.
YOU LOOK AT A NEW GOVERNMENT
COMING IN, AUTHORITY AND REALL
SET NEW RULES FOR THE MEDIA.
THE LOCAL MEDIA, CHINESE MEDIA
YOU KNOW, GROWN ACCUSTOMED T
DEALING WITH THE GOVERNMENT AN
THE GOVERNMENTS THAT HAVE COME
BEFORE
I THINK WHAT WE'RE SEEING NOW IS
A GREATER ANIMOSITY TOWARD
FOREIGN JOURNALIST
>> WHAT IS MOTIVATING THAT
>> THE GOVERNMENT TOOK ON
REFORM ATMOSPHERE ITSELF AND
GONE AFTER CORPORATION A
CERTAIN LEVELS WITHIN TH
GOVERNMENT
WHAT IT DOESN'T LIKE IS FO
FOREIGN JOURNALISTS, OR EVEN
LOCAL JOURNALISTS TO DO THAT O
THEIR OWN.
THEY WANT TO CONTROL THA
PROCESS.
>> SO IT'S OKAY FOR THEIR OW
JOURNALIST TO EXPOSE THE DIRTY
LAUNDRY --
>> NOT ONLY THEIR OWN JOURNALIST
BUT THE STATE MEDIA.
THEY CONTROL WHO IS THE BAD GUY,
WHO IS THE GOOD GUY AND HOW IT
SHOULD BE PORTRAYED.
WHAT THEY DON'T LIKE IS WHEN THE
LOCAL MEDIA, WHICH CAN GET
RAMBUNCTOUS AT TIMES RUNS WITH
THE STORY THEMSELVES O
DISCOVER OTHER CORRUPTION THAT
THE GOVERNMENT DOESN'T WAN
REVEALED OR ISN'T READY OR WHE
THE FOREIGN MEDIA DO THAT.
>> THERE WAS A RECENT REPORT B
FOREIGN PRESS IN CHINA AND THE
REALLY RATTLED OFF A LIST OF
CONCERNS THEY HAVE INCLUDING
INTIMIDATION NOT JUST TO
THEMSELVES, THEIR SOURCES AN
CYBER ATTACKS AGAINST THEM
>> YEAH, IT'S THE FOREIG
CORRESPONDENTS CLUB OF CHINA,
CCC.
THEY DID A SURVEY, REPORT AN
BROUGHT IT OUT AND THE VAS
MAJORITY OF THE RESPONDENTS SAID
THINGS ARE GETTING WORSE OR THEY
STAYED STATIC AND AREN'T
IMPROVING IN CHINA
AND YOU HAVE THE OFFICIA
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT LEVEL WHERE
YOU GET THIS BUREAUCRATI
HARASSMENT OR CALLED INTO TH
FOREIGN MINISTRY AND LECTURED.
WHEN YOU DO STORIES AT THE
GROUND LEVEL, THERE YOU DEAL
WITH A DIFFERENT SORT OF
PROBLEM, AND REALLY A THREAT
YOU HAVE COPS, THUGS, VILLAG
OFFICIALS WHO REALLY HAVE THIS
OVER DEVELOPED SENSE O
ENTITLEMENT AND POWER.
NOT READY TO ACCOMMODATE MEDIA
EITHER CHINESE OR FOREIGN.
LOCAL POLICE CAN REALLY GE
ROUGH WITH DEMONSTRATORS, AN
TREMENDOUS NUMBER OF
DEMONSTRATIONS IN CHINA, AND
VERY OFTEN YOU'LL HAVE
JOURNALISTS.
>> SO IS THE INTIMIDATIONS
WORKING?
ARE THEY INTIMIDATED BY WORKIN
IN CHINA
>> I LOOK AT THE OLD WIR
SERVICES WE SEE AND I DON'T SE
THEM CUTTING CORNERS, BUT I DO
SPEAK TO JOURNALISTS THERE
SOMEHOW THEY KNOW THE GOVERNMENT
IS WATCHING AND IF THEY DON'
LIKE WHAT THEY ARE WRITING, THEY
WILL BE SOME PRICE TO PAY,
WHETHER A GRAND PRICE OF BEING
KICKED OUT OR SOMETHING SMALLER.
JOURNALISTS WORKING IN CHINA
ASSUME AT ALL TIMES THAT THEIR
PHONES ARE BUGGED, AND THEIR
E-MAIL TRAFFIC IS BEIN
MONITORED, EVEN IF IT ISN'
HAPPENING ON A SPECIFI
INDIVIDUAL CASE, PEOPLE AR
ALWAYS OPERATING WITH THAT
ASSUMPTION
>> BOB, THE COMMITTEE TO PROTECT
JOURNALISTS, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS, HARI.
>>> FINALLY TONIGHT, A PREVIEW
FRONT LINE AND A JOINT
INVESTIGATION WITH THE NEW YOR
TIMES EXPLOITS HOW POLICE HANDLE
CASES INVOLVING THEIR OW
OFFICERS, ESPECIALLY WHEN THER
IS THE POSSIBILITY OF DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE
THE TIMES STORY WILL RUN IN TH
NEXT FEW DAYS, IN TH
DOCUMENTARY THIS TUESDAY
HERE IS A LOOK
>>> THE SHADOW THAT LAY ACROSS
MICHELLE O'CONNELL'S DEATH I
HOW EFFECTIVELY LAW ENFORCEMEN
INVESTIGATES CASES INVOLVING
IT'S OWN OFFICERS, ESPECIALL
WHEN THERE IS THE POSSIBILITY OF
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
>> IN MY 3 TWO YEARS OF LA
ENFORCEMENT, I CAN PROBABL
COUNT ON THESE FINGERS THE
NUMBER OF AGENCIES THAT ACTUALLY
HELD OFFICERS ACCOUNTABLE AN
TERMINATED THEIR EMPLOYMENT.
IT IS VERY RARE THAT YOU SEE A
OFFICER EVEN PROSECUTED BECAUS
MOST PROSECUTORS DON'T WANT TO
FILE CRIMINAL CHARGES AGAINST AN
OFFICER BECAUSE THEY NEED THEM
FOR THEIR CASES.
>> Reporter: DOTTY DAVIS SPENT
YEARS ON THE INDIANA POLIC
FORCE.
SHE WAS IN A VIOLENT MARRIAGE TO
A FELLOW OFFICER
TODAY, DAVIS TALKS T
DEPARTMENTS AROUND THE COUNTRY
ABOUT THE ISSUE OF OFFICER
INVOLVED DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
>> SO MANY AGENCIES WHEN I WAL
IN WILL SAY NOT OUR AGENCY, NO
ANYBODY HERE, AND THE FACT O
THE MATTER IS, IT'S ESTIMATE
SIX TO EVEN INCIDENTS HAPPEN
BEFORE THEY CALL THE POLICE, BUT
IF YOUR ABUSER IS THE POLICE
YOU'RE GOING TO CALL HIS OR HE
AGENCY TO THE HOME T
INVESTIGATE?
AND IN TODAY'S TECHNOLOGY, A
VICTIM CALLS 911
GUESS WHAT, THEIR STATEMENT IS
RIGHT ON THE SCREEN FOR EVER
FELLOW OFFICER AND EVERY FRIEN
OF THAT OFFICER TO READ AND TO
MAKE A CALL AND LET HIM KNOW
WHAT SHE JUST TOLD THE
DISPATCHER AND THAT PEOPLE ARE
RESPONDING
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON AIR AN
ONLINE
FROM HAWAII A NOVEL PROGRA
KEEPING MORE PROBATIONERS OUT OF
PRISON
>> I THOUGHT OF THE WAY I WA
RAISED, THE WAY MY WIFE AND
WERE TRYING TO RAISE MY SON, YOU
TELL THEM THE FAMILY RULES AND
IF THERE IS MISBEHAVIOR, YOU D
SOMETHING IMMEDIATELY.
>>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION
OF PBS "NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREEIVASAN.
-- Captions by VITAC -
www.vitac.co